The increasing use of social media platforms as personalized advertising channels is a double-edged sword. A high level of personalization on these platforms increases users’ sense of losing control over personal data: This could trigger the privacy fatigue phenomenon manifested in emotional exhaustion and cynicism toward privacy, which leads to a lack of privacy-protective behavior. Machine learning has shown its effectiveness in the early prediction of people’s psychological state to avoid such consequences. Therefore, this study aims to classify users with low and medium-to-high levels of privacy fatigue, based on their information privacy awareness and big-five personality traits. A dataset was collected from 538 participants via an online questionnaire. The prediction models were built using the Support Vector Machine, Naïve Bayes, K-Nearest Neighbors, Decision Tree, and Random Forest classifiers, based on the literature. The results showed that awareness and conscientiousness trait have a significant relationship with privacy fatigue. Support Vector Machine and Naïve Bayes classifiers outperformed the other classifiers by attaining a classification accuracy of 78%, F1 of 87%, recall of 100% and 98%, and precision of 78% and 79% respectively, using 5-fold cross-validation. With a few studies on the phenomenon, this study extends the concept of privacy fatigue into the social media context. These results provide researchers, social media operators, and business owners with a more comprehensive understanding of the psychological effect of the extensive use of personal data for social media ads. Additionally, the model may help communities to detect users who are more exposed to privacy breaches as a result of privacy fatigue, in order to motivate privacy-protective behavior.

This study's Python code and dataset are in this repository.
